[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Another thing that's
really neat is being able to set these
breakpoints on the actual document.
So basically what you can do, I'm trying
to think of a good example of this is if
you are working on an application that,
I’m trying to think of one.
I guess, let me go to somebody's website.
Let me think for example,
if we go to Twitter and
I'm trying to find anything
that's like changing.
But basically what you can do is,
all right here we go.
So we've got this video and if you click
play on the video, it starts playing.
And so let's say this is really handy when
you're on a brand new code base and you
don't necessarily know how the code works
but you know where the bug is visually.
What you're allowed to do is you
can open up the developer tools.
Let me scroll down just a little bit.
You can find the parent element.
So like in this case, it looks like,
I don't know, we've got this Tweet, right.
And then you can right-click on it, and
you've got this break on menu here.
And so it allows you to basically find the
code that does one of these three things,
removes that note if it ever gets removed,
changes any of
the attributes like if you've got
a class changing on something or
modifies anything in it's subtrees or
anything underneath it.
So this is really great.
I’ve had a lot of times you've
got like an image slide or
something like that there's a bug in it
and you're pretty new to the code base.
You’re not sure where
that bug is coming from.
So you can right click
on the container and
you can say get break on sub-tree
modifications when that image changes out.
And what it will do is intellectually
I'm not totally sure if this will work.
Let's let's give it a try.
Maybe on attribute removal.
I wonder if it's getting play.
Well, I'm gonna come back to the example.
But basically what it'll do is it'll pop
you into the sources tab at the line of
JavaScript that's changing that.
Here we go.
Okay Something changed.
Give it a second.
So basically I think it’s just cuz Twitter
is a really big app is why it's going
a little bit slow.
So basically, you set that break on and
then you let whatever change happen and
it'll pop you into the sources
tab at the exact line that's
causing whatever the changes.
And so then what you can do here,
and we'll get into sources more in
a little bit, is you can hit Prettyprint
and it'll keep that line number.
Again this is probably
going to take a while,
because it's a huge JavaScript file.
Here we go.
So you can see I don't know,
something's being removed here.
But this is a really cool way to
kind of go from the outside in.
So if you're not familiar
with the code base but
you are familiar with where the bug is
visually, you can set one of those.
They're called Dom breakpoints and
you can get the change.
Does that make sense?
I know,
it was a little bit of a sloppy example.
Okay cool.
>> Jon Kuperman: All right, the next thing
which is pretty neat is color formats.
So, depending on the project
that you're working on,
you might be doing your code
your colors in hex codes.
You might be doing them HSLA, you might
be doing them an RGB anything like that.
And converting between them can
get kind of annoying sometimes.
So what it allows you to
do with the dev tools,
let's go find something that's colored.
I'll find this navigation bar here and
I'll see that it's got this
background of these blues and
let's say that I need RGB or
something like that.
You can shift click on any color value,
and
it'll transform it between it's HSL,
it's RGB and it's hex code.
That's pretty handy.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, along with the
color, there's a lot of really cool stuff.
So, you can click on this
little box preview here and
you get a bunch of different things.
There's kind of a lot happening here.
One is a color picker,
which is really nice.
So you could change
the color of something.
So if I go and I find this gradient,
and then I go to the color picker,
I can like move into reds or whatever.
So this is like an easy way to kind of
visually design right on your site.
Again, here, allows you.
This is like another UI for
changing the format between.
And then this is kind of the big one.
This is new in Canary,
these color palettes.
So what it gives you are basically
three different options.
You can upload a custom color palette,
which can be really, or build one here,
which can be really handy if you have
your brand identity, your colors.
You can let Google parse the page and
give you what it thinks your
color palette should be.
So this is the colors that I
was able to find on the page.
Or if you have no color
palette skills like I do,
you can use Google's open source
material design color scheme.
This is basically how it is on my sites
because I don't know how to pick great
colors but it's pretty cool.
So it gives you access to all of their for
those that aren't familiar, they released
like this big U-I kit a few years ago
including this material color scheme.
So you can kind of like do all
your designing right in here.
Also worth noting on these
which is pretty cool,
they have if you hold a long click on any
of them they have like all these different
shades that are all included
in their color panel.
So it's stuff on colors.
>> Speaker 2: Could you,
there's a question on the when you click
on an element it has the dollars zero.
I don't know if you can demonstrate that?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
so that's really great.
So basically, and we'll get into this for
sure when we cover the console tab, but
basically Chrome has added these really
cool ways to interact between elements and
console.
So you can imagine, like sometimes
you're looking at, I don't know,
like you're looking at an element and
you want to kind of take it into
the console and play with it basically.
And so what they allow you to do is, they
allow you to use these like very jQuery
like selectors right
that's like dollar sign.
And so what it allows you to do, okay so
we'll click on an element
like nav class nav bar.
And then I'll go into the console and
then I'll type dollar sign zero and
I'll hit Enter and
you see nav class nav bar.
So you can bring it into
the console that way.
And what's even cooler is they allow
you to keep a history of four the last
clicked elements.
So from nav navbar,
I'll click on container-fluid and
I'll go back into the console.
So now $0 is container-fluid,
but now $1 is nav class navbar.
And you get four of them,
five of them, zero through four.
You get five of them, sorry.
Yeah so that's like a pretty cool
thing just for taking elements in.
And it gives you like,
you take the element and
it gives you the entire subtree
that you can click through there.
That adequately answer the question.
It also will see some other
stuff from time to time but
basically these comments, you'll see I'm
a lot when we go into the sources tab.
They're just like Google experimenting
with UI's to try to help you with stuff
you can do with it basically.
So in the sources tab,
we'll start seeing comments that are like
what global variables are declared.
You'll see a little comment that's like
remember foo is set to bar right now,
things like that.
So those are these comments over here.
CSS specificity.
This isn't really Dev Tools related but
I just wanted to bring it out.
So I usually get questions on items
that are crossed out over here in
the styles tab.
So for those that aren't familiar with CSS
specificity, basically it's like the what
the CSS rendering engine
uses to resolve conflicts.
So if you have like a body,
all text should be colored blue.
But then you have like anchor tags texture
be colored yellow, something like that.
How does it resolve should be blue,
should be yellow?
And more importantly, if you have like
an element that has a class and an ID and
those conflict,
how do you solve that dispute?
So the crossed out means
it lost the dispute and
it is not an applied style which
is where it can get really messy.
Because I give you using a CSS framework
like I am with bootstrap it's gonna have
all of its selectors that it's applying
that I'm going to override slowly but
surely as I customize my site.
So you'll see a bunch of crossed
out stuff all over the place.
That’s where the computed styles comes in
really handy cuz you only see the ones
that are actually applying.
And just a quick if anybody didn't know,
this is like the order that
things go in for specificity.
So if you ever dealing with something
crossed out you don't want it, the least
specific thing you can do is specify an
element like anchors or buttons or divs.
And then you can go into class selectors.
Those are trumped by ID selectors and
then all the way to direct inline styles.
So if you have like divs
style equals color blue
that's the final trump specificity.